It's time to talk about
three functions that have
a lot of people that
are newer to JavaScript
scratching their heads Call Apply and
Bind.
These three functions have to do with
something we've already talked about.
In our execution context we
have our Variable Environment,
Outer Environment reference and
we have this thing, this variable
that's set up for us called 'this'.
We've already seen that the this key word
can point to the global object in some
cases, and in other cases it
can point to the object that
contains the function, if the function
is a method attached to an object.
Wouldn't it be nice to be able to control
what the this variable ends up being?
When the execution context is created.
Well, Java script has
a way to do just that.
And that's where call,
apply and bind come in.
We could have talked about this before,
when we talked about objects,
functions, and this variable.
But to properly and
fully understand call, apply and bind.
Especially when looking
at it syntactically.
We need it to have a complete
understanding of first class functions.
So, we already know a function is
a special kind of object, it has a hidden
optional name property which can be
anonymous then if you don't have a name.
We have a code property
that contains the code and
that code property is invokable so
we can run the code.
All functions in
JavaScript also get access
to some special functions,
some special methods, on their own.
Remember, a function is just an object,
so it can have properties and methods.
So, all functions have
access to a call method,
an apply method, and a bind method.
And all three of these
have to do with the this
variable and the arguments that
you pass to the function as well.
All right.
Let's take a look.
Let's suppose I have an object,
a person object I'm gonna
use object literal syntax.
Give a first name 'John' as the property.
A last name 'Doe' as property.
Let's do a method called getFullName.
Inside my object literal I
use a function expression.
Set up this function.
Let's say I use this.firstname,
this.lastname, and
then I'll return fullname.
So I have this object with these
two properties and this method.
The method uses the this keyword.
And remember since this is a method on
an object an this function is executed
this key word will point to this
whole object the person object.
The object that contains the method.
All right so, what about call,
apply and bind?
Well, let's imagine that
I have some logName
function that exists
outside of this object.
Maybe it takes a couple of parameters
about language and some other things.
I'm just going to go ahead and
console.log.
We're gonna say logged and
then we're gonna say
this.getFullName(); all right.
So, for starters,
we know that this will fail, right here.
Why?
Because the this keyword
here at the this level
is going to be pointing to
the global object I'm not a method
this function isn't a method
of the person objects so
when I go to run this,
actually let me execute it, sorry.
Let me go now run this.
It says undefined is not a function.
The this is the global object and
there is no getFullName.
So that's undefined and
then I tried to invoke undefined.
Then it gave me an error.
Well, that makes sense, but
wouldn't it be nice if I could control
what the this keyword points to?
So let's make a new function
called logPersonName.
And I'll use the logName function.
And all functions in JavaScript
get access to these three methods.
The first we'll use is .bind.
Notice I'm not invoking the function and
saying .bind because,
the function returns a value.
I'm looking to actually use
the function as an object and
call a method of that object.
So just logName.bind,
because this is a function object, .bind.
All function objects get this.
And then,
I can pass to it whatever object I want
to be the this variable
when the function runs.
The bind function,
the bind method returns a new function.
So, it actually makes a copy
of this logName function.
And sets up this new function object,
this new copy.
So that whenever it's run.
When its execution context is created.
The JavaScript engine sees that
this was created with this bind,
which sets up some hidden things
in the background, so that.
When the JavaScript engine decides
what is the this variable,
it says well it must be that.
Right there,
whatever was passed to the bind method.
So I'm affecting the JavaScript engine
as far as what it decides when it
creates the execution context for
this new copy of this function.
So If I call logPersonName
instead of just logName,
I call this new copy of this
function created with bind.
When it says this,
this will be the person.
This person object.
So I can call the get dot get
full name and it logs it.
See that?
I could even have done this here.
I could have created the function on
the fly and said .bind(person) and
then if I call just logName()
instead of error-ing,
this now points to a copy of this function
that was created on the fly bound with
the this variable to whatever
I want to this variable to be.
So this become essentially,
right here, preson.getName.
Because I passed it in to the bind.
That works too.
So the .bind creates a copy of whatever
function you're calling it on.
And then whatever methods you pass to it,
whatever object you pass to this method,
the person object pass to bind,
the person object is what the this
variable points to by reference.
Make sense?
So let's say that I want to also log.
Let's do it below here, log my Arguments.
Just so we see this as well,
everything that's happening.
And then, first,
I'm going to call this a few times.
I'll go ahead and
set up just a line or something so
you can see every time this
is called the difference.
All right so, I called this.
Notice I have two undefined arguments.
My language 1 and
language 2 are undefined.
But I can pass an argument.
Remember this is a copy of the function so
it still takes the same arguments,
only this variable will be person.
So that still works, and
I see English and undefined.
I'll even just a put a space in
here just so we can see it clearly.
How about that, there.
This is what bind does,
creates a copy, and
I can tell it what the this variable is,
at least in part.
Let's move on first to call and
apply before we show anymore.
If I do logName.call,
this calls the function.
And invokes it.
I could've also called the function
like that, with parenthesis.
Move down a bit.
But instead I did .call
instead of parenthesis,
because .call also, lets me decide
what the this variable will be.
The first thing I pass to call is what
the this keyword should point to.
It works the same as these parentheses,
but lets me control what this means.
And I can also pass it parameters.
Unlike bind, which creates a copy of
the function, call actually executes it.
And then just decides what
the this variable should be and
the rest is just the parameters that I
would normally pass to the function.
See that?
So if I call this again, there's my .call,
it executed the function.
This bind did not execute the function,
it created a copy.
With the this variable setup.
This one actually executed it.
And I just passed the parameters as well.
LogName.apply, all
functions can get .apply.
This does the exact same thing.
Only one difference.
If I tried to pass variables like that,
I'd get an error.
Arguments list has the wrong type.
Because the apply method wants an array
of parameters,
rather than just the normal list.
And that's the only difference
between call and apply.
And that works too.
An array can be more useful especially
under mathematical circumstances.
Let's say,
I was adding a bunch of numbers, and
it could be any number of variables,
or other things like that.
So, I just have two options
depending on how I'm coding,
what my pattern is for
how I'm using this function.
Make sense?
And again, I could do this on the fly,
I could take this function,
trick the syntax parser into realizing
it's not a normal function statement,
it's a function expression.
But rather than immediately
invoking it with these parentheses,
I'll immediately invoke it using,
let's say, .apply or .call.
And I'll say person and give it
an array of whatever I'm passing to it.
See that?
It looks a little odd,
but I'm just creating
a function on the fly.
And then invoking it using .apply because
all function objects get access to
this method, telling it what this is and
passing some arguments.
So that should work again, and it does.
Yet another list there.
Just so you can see the difference,
I'll sort these two.
There it is.
So that's interesting.
And I know what you're probably thinking.
When would I ever actually
use this in real life?
Well, let's talk about two instances.
So I've scrolled down a bit in my code,
and the first thing I'm going to show
is something called function borrowing.
Let's say I have a second person
object with similar property names,
but different data,
let's say Jane, lastname Doe.
This is very similar to
my first person object,
only the second one doesn't
have a getFullName method.
So I'm going to do something called
function borrowing by using call or apply.
I'll take that first person object I
created which does have the getFullName
method and since it's a function,
it has access to .call and .apply.
I'll just use .apply.
So it's going to execute,
invoke this function.
I am going to tell it, but
the this keyword should
point to my person2 object.
See that?
So I am invoking this
method here on this object.
But since it uses the this keyword
to access its other properties,
I'm setting the this keyword
to my person2 object.
So if I console.log the results of this,
Jane Doe.
There it is.
See that?
So what I've done is
I've borrowed a function.
This method here, this function on this
person object, I wanted to use it for
my person2 object so
I borrowed it using the apply.
I could have done
the same thing with call.
Make sense?
So you can grab methods from other
objects and use them as long as you have
similar property names so
that the function works.
Let's look at a second example,
called function currying.
This in particular has to do
with the bind, the .bind.
Because that's creating a copy of the
function, and it actually does something
rather interesting if you
pass parameters to the bind.
With call and apply, passing
parameters just passes the parameters.
But with bind, you're creating
a new copy of the function.
So what happens if you
pass parameters to it?
Well, I'll say I'm going to create
a new function called multiply.
That's just gonna return a times b.
I'll pass it two things, two numbers,
and it will multiply them.
Then I'm gonna create a new function.
A copy of the multiply, using .bind.
I don't care about what the this
keyword is in this case,
I'm not using the this keyword.
But I am going to give
it A parameter value.
Now remember, bind is not calling,
it's not executing the function.
So what does this do?
Since I'm not executing it,
what does giving it parameters do?
Giving it parameters
sets the permanent values
of these parameters when the copy is made.
So by setting two,
what I'm saying is the first parameter,
cuz the first thing I put is the value
of this keyword, and then my parameters.
The first parameter will always be
a two in this copy of the function.
The variable A will always be a two.
This is essentially equivalent
to taking this function and
then setting up what this keyword will be,
and then instead of having a I
just permanently set a to 2.
See that?
That's what this is doing right here.
So, the bind is permanently
setting this right there and
I can call my new function,
my new copy and if I pass to
it,let's say a three or a four.
This will end up as the second parameter,
the B.
So, if I console.that log
inside the console.log.
So, what I've done is said,
give me a copy of this function or
that this variable is set up, and
then also decided to set a permanent
value for this first parameter.
When you call this new copy I've
essentially done away with this first
parameter, and so whatever you pass
will be that second parameter.
And so, if I run this eight,
four, which is B, times two,
which is the permanent A.
If I had passed both parameters to bind
I'm essentially telling it
this is the value of a and
b always, and this 4 just becomes an extra
parameter passed to the function.
So even if I pass 4, it's going to be 2
and 2, so I'll always see result of 4.
If I made a 5 it's still 2 and
2, 2 times 2 is 4.
If I pass no parameters then I have A and
B open so
I could do 5 and 2 and
that would be 10, but
in this case I've
intentionally made a permanent
Version, a permanent copy with
certain parameters by default.
I've taken my multiply, and
I've made a multiply by two and
I can take this multiply function and
make another,
multipleByThree, set a to 3 and
then call that and I get 8 and 12.
See that?
I took a function and
created a new function from it
with some default parameters.
That's called currying.
Big word alert.
Function currying: creating a copy of a
function but with some preset parameters.
Their cert turns out to be really
useful in mathematical situations,
so if you're building a library that has
to do a lot of mathematical calculations,
you can have some fundamental functions
that you can then build on with some other
default parameters.
A really good useful usage for bind.
So that's it, that's call,
apply, and bind.
Apply and call invoke the function and
let you set up the this key word and
then pass the other parameters if
you want in two different ways.
And bind creates a copy of the function,
let's you set up what the this
key word should mean and
also let's you set default parameters,
permanent preset parameters if you want.
So, these are all useful and
you'll see them, don't be scared by them.
They're just methods on the function
object that have to do with setting up for
this keyword and how and
what happens when the function is invoked.
All right, let's move on.